# Radiolarian_Database_and_CNN

## from publication "A new automated radiolarian image acquisition, stacking, processing, segmentation, and identification workflow".

## Abstract:
  Identification of microfossils is usually done by expert taxonomists and requires significant systematic knowledge and time, as typically about 300 specimens per sample are identified for statistically reliable studies. Radiolarians are no exception, and their utility has been demonstrated for a long time in biostratigraphy using the presence / absence of some species, as well in palaeoceanographic reconstructions (past productivity, temperature, and variability of water masses). Traditionally, these studies have required the manual identification of numerous specimens in many  samples under a transmitted light microscope, which is very tedious and time consuming. Furthermore, identification may differ between operators, biasing reproducibility. Recent technological advances in image acquisition, processing, and recognition now enable automated procedures for this process, from microscope image acquisition to taxonomic identification.

  A new workflow was developed for automated radiolarian image acquisition, stacking, processing, segmentation, and identification. Firstly, a new protocol was developed as a proposed standard methodology for preparing radiolarian microscopic slides. We mount 8 samples per slide (using 12x12 mm cover slides) on which radiolarians were randomly and uniformly decanted using a recently developed 3D-printed decanter that minimizes the loss of material. The slides are then automatically imaged using a transmitted light microscope. About 500 individual radiolarian specimens (excluding the broken and overlaying specimens) are recovered (about 4000 specimens per slide) from 4860 original fields of view (15 z-stacked images per FOV x 324 FOVs) per sample, after which automated image processing and segmentation is performed using a custom plugin developed for the ImageJ software. Each image is then automatically classified using a convolutional neural network (CNN) trained on a database of radiolarian images (currently 17065 images, corresponding to 112 classes, of which 104 are radiolarian taxa from Neogene to recent) using the software, ParticleTrieur.

  To train this CNN to recognise every class from our database, classes containing less than 10 images were first fused into a single “other” class. Then, the 84 remaining classes were trained to be recognised with an overall accuracy of about 90 %. The whole procedure, including the image acquisition, stacking, processing, segmentation and recognition, is entirely automated via a LabVIEW interface, and takes approximately 1 hour per sample (About 500 in average are recognised per sample). Census data count and classified radiolarian images are then automatically exported and saved. This new workflow will now be used on two Neogene to Recent sedimentary records from the IODP expedition 363 (Core U1483 and Core U1488), recovered from the West Pacific Warm Pool.

## Downloadable files:

soon
